the words of this metaphorical memoir, I wasn’t able to ex-
plain many of my delusions to anyone. My story was locked
away.

Also, I would like to say that I have discovered for myself,
proven to myself, that Buddhism points to truth; Buddhism
is true. Life really is characterized by discontentment, and
by following the teachings of Buddhism, I actually do expe-
rience occasional glimpses of true peace. In these glimpses,
these nyams, I sometimes see through samsara, the same way
anyone can see through a movie—seeing it’s just a movie; it’s
not real.

It is an ambitious goal to abide in peace on a regular basis,
but I believe it’s possible and I’m working towards peace via
the hinayana and mahayana paths as laid out by Trungpa
Rinpoche. Over the past few years my practice has oscillated,
back and forth, between disinterest and over-enthusiasm, but
I am aiming for the middle way.

At the same time, I must announce that my understand-
ing of Buddhism was and is delusional. I have cherrypicked,
and continue to cherrypick, mostly unconsciously, the parts of
Buddhism I want to believe, and then interpret those parts in
such a way that they prop up my ego. I have heard that this
form of spiritual corruption is common. Trungpa Rinpoche
refers to it as “spiritual materialism,” and he even wrote a
book titled Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism. The first
time I studied the book, I walked away, thinking, “J am more
enlightened now.” These days, it’s hard to really know how
much I’m falling into self-justified egoic traps, but I know I’m
not innocent, nor am I completely guilty.

Finally, thank you everyone for helping me. Thank you
Mom and Dad. Thank you brother and sister. Thank you
friends. Thank you strangers. Thank you family. Thank you
Uncle Steve. Thank you Rosabella, Matthew, Eric, Lena,
Jimmy, and Deluxe. And, thank you to the new people in
my life who are helping me now, especially thank you to my
kind, loving, understanding fiancée. Thank you, thank you,
thank you! Thank you, everyone!

143
