8 CHAPTER 1. THE QUINE SIMULATOR

wouldn’t function realistically. To work around this problem,
the scientists behind Quine, Professor Steve among them,
hardcoded some basic assumptions about the nature of hu-
manity into the simulation. Following the work of Professor
John Nash, winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics for his
discovery of Game Theory, they hardcoded self interest as
the basis for humanity. As we’ll find out later, this assump-
tion missed the mark, but it was the starting basis for the
first high-fidelity reality simulations, so it is worth mention-
ing here.

Completed just two weeks prior, the goal of the Quine sim-
ulator was to identify scenarios that would end truce negoti-
ations favorably for the United States. The simulator’s best
scenario it had found so far was to divide France in half,
and Paris in half, like Germany and Berlin at the end of
WW2. Simulations showed this would result in a new cold
war (WW5), which would contain 23 years of intermittent vi-
olence, albeit less violence than found in WW4. Then, WW5
would end by replacing the UN with the Federation of United
Nations, which would include legislative, judicial, and exec-
utive branches representing all nation states fairly. The first
article of FUN’s constitution would read “In God We Trust,”
and the conclusion of WW5 would bring peace, prosperity,
and a permanent end of war for everyone on Earth.

Professor Steve wasn’t supposed to run the simulator 23 years
into the future, and he therefore wasn’t supposed to know
about WW5 and FUN, but he had peeked inside the simu-
lator when no one was looking. The prohibition on peeking
was based on the understanding that if you see too far into
the future, your insight about the future might influence the
future, thereby invalidating the predictions of the simulation.

At first, Professor Steve found the idea of God in a global
constitution to be distasteful, but he reckoned it’s better than
violence, poverty, and war. He had an idea! Maybe we can
skip WW5 entirely by presenting the Quine simulator to the
